ABSTRACT: The issue of driver's safety is of great importance in today's automotive industry. In many cases, a lack of proper vision is responsible for accidents during heavy rainfall. In many cases, manual errors like not increasing the speed of the wiper by the driver lead to accidents. Today's car wipers work on the principle of manual switching. In this paper, we proposed an automatic rain sensing wiper system that detects rain and starts automatically and stops when the rain stops. The automatic rain sensing car wiper system is not only automatic but also intelligent. The wiper system detects the rainfall automatically and starts itself. The Wiper system is also intelligent. When the droplets of rainfall on the sensor, the sensor detects the intensity and the speed of the wiper are automated accordingly. The higher speed of rotation indicates the higher rainfall. There will be no need for manual intervention for controlling wiper. In this project, we use Arduino along with a rain sensor, an LCD 16x2 module, and a servo motor. The moisture is measured via analog output pins which are present in the rain sensor, the wiper starts rotating when a threshold of moisture is exceeded. The module used here is completely based on LM393 op-amp. The information sensed by the rain sensor is sent to Arduino. The Arduino is an Atemga8 based microcontroller board. Interactive electronic devices can be designed and created by using Arduino, which is a platform to develop the working of electronic devices. It consists of an on-board power supply and a USB port to communicate with the pc. The collected information from the rain sensor is processed and analyzed by Arduino and it further controls the servo motor based on the processed information. The information about the intensity of the rainfall and speed of the wiper is informed to the driver by means of a 4-bit LCD module which is kept near the driver's seat. The rain sensor is kept at the side of the windshield, outside the car. The rain sensor is connected to the servo motor. The blades of the wiper are connected to the servo motor. All the devices are connected to Arduino which is connected to the power source inside the car. WORKING: • When the device is switched ON, the servo motor will turn the wiper to zero degree position. • After that the controller will continuously checks the signal from rain sensing module. • If the signal from the module goes beyond a minimum value, the servo motor begins to operate . • The speed of operation of servo will be varied according to the strength of the signal. And the intensity of rainfall will be displayed on the LCD according to the signal strength . • The position of the servo will be at 0 degree at the beginning. • The Arduino reads the sensor output through the analog input pins using the built in “analogRead(pin_number)” function. For example “analogRead(sensorPin);” converts the voltage (in the range 0 to 5V) at the A0 pin into an integer in the range 0 to 1023. • In this way the voltage at A0 is compared to a fixed number for identifying the current rainfall intensity . If the value obtained from the sensor goes beyond a specific limit, the controller will trigger the servo to operate. And the speed of operation will be varied according to the sensor output. A user defined function called “wipe(speed)” is used for controlling the servo speed.The rain sensing wiper system is constructed using Rain Sensor, Servo motor, LCD module, and Arduino. Whenever the droplets of the rain on the rain sensor, it senses the rainfall and sends Arduino the necessary information for the process to carry on. Arduino is a microcontroller board which is generally an Atemga8. The information sent by the rain sensor is processed by the Arduino and controls the servo motor based on the information processed. The LCD module is to display the information about the speed of the wiper and intensity of the rain. The rain sensor, which senses the rainfall is placed at the side corner of the windshield outside the car. The wiper blades are connected with the servo motor and are powered by it. LCD module is kept inside the car nearby the driver’s vision. The rain sensor, LCD module, and the servo motor are connected with Arduino, which is present in the car connected to a dc source. The speed of the servo motor is increased whenever the intensity rises from low to high. There are three different speeds for the Low, Medium and High intensity of the rainfall. When the intensity of the rainfall increases, the rotation speed of the wiper will decrease automatically. Accordingly, the LCD module displays the information
